docs/src/tutorial.md, before:

# Tutorial

```@meta
CurrentModule = PencilFFTs
```

The following tutorial shows how to perform a 3D FFT of real periodic data
defined on a grid of $N_x × N_y × N_z$ points.

```@raw html
<div class="figure">
  <!--
  Note: this is evaluated from the directory where the Tutorial page is
  built. This directory varies depending on whether `prettyurls` is enabled in
  `makedocs`. Here we assume `prettyurls=true`.
  -->
  <img
    width="85%"
    src="../img/pencils.svg"
    alt="Pencil decomposition of 3D domains">
</div>
```

The example assumes that 12 MPI processes are available.
The data is to be distributed on a 2D MPI topology of dimensions $3 × 4$,
as represented in the above figure.

## Creating plans

The first thing to do is to create a [`PencilFFTPlan`](@ref), which requires
information on the global dimensions $N_x × N_y × N_z$ of the data, on the
transforms that will be applied, and on the way the data is distributed among
MPI processes (i.e. number of processes along each dimension):

```julia
using MPI
using PencilFFTs

MPI.Init()

# Input data dimensions (Nx × Ny × Nz)
dims = (16, 32, 64)

# Apply a 3D real-to-complex (r2c) FFT.
transform = Transforms.RFFT()

# For more control, one can instead separately specify the transforms along each dimension:
# transform = (Transforms.RFFT(), Transforms.FFT(), Transforms.FFT())

# MPI topology information
comm = MPI.COMM_WORLD  # we assume MPI.Comm_size(comm) == 12
proc_dims = (3, 4)     # 3 processes along `y`, 4 along `z`

# Create plan
plan = PencilFFTPlan(dims, transform, proc_dims, comm)
```

See the [`PencilFFTPlan`](@ref) constructor for details on the accepted
options, and the [`Transforms`](@ref) module for the possible transforms.
It is also possible to enable fine-grained performance measurements via the
[TimerOutputs](https://github.com/KristofferC/TimerOutputs.jl) package, as
described in [Measuring performance](@ref PencilFFTs.measuring_performance).

## Allocating data

Next, we want to apply the plan on some data.
Transforms may only be applied on [`PencilArray`](@ref)s, which are array
wrappers that include MPI decomposition information (in some sense, analogous
to [`DistributedArray`](https://github.com/JuliaParallel/Distributedarrays.jl)s
in Julia's distributed computing approach).
The helper function [`allocate_input`](@ref) can be used to allocate
a `PencilArray` that is compatible with our plan:
```julia
# In our example, this returns a 3D PencilArray of real data (Float64).
u = allocate_input(plan)

# Fill the array with some (random) data
using Random
randn!(u)
```
`PencilArray`s are a subtype of `AbstractArray`, and thus they support all
common array operations.

Similarly, to preallocate output data, one can use [`allocate_output`](@ref):
```julia
# In our example, this returns a 3D PencilArray of complex data (Complex{Float64}).
v = allocate_output(plan)
```
This is only required if one wants to apply the plans using a preallocated
output (with `mul!`, see right below).

## Applying plans

The interface to apply plans is consistent with that of
[`AbstractFFTs`](https://juliamath.github.io/AbstractFFTs.jl/stable/api/#AbstractFFTs.plan_fft).
Namely, `*` and `mul!` are respectively used for forward transforms without and
with preallocated output data.
Similarly, `\ ` and `ldiv!` are used for backward transforms.

```julia
using LinearAlgebra  # for mul!, ldiv!

# Apply plan on `u` with `v` as an output
mul!(v, plan, u)

# Apply backward plan on `v` with `w` as an output
w = similar(u)
ldiv!(w, plan, v)  # now w ≈ u
```

Note that, consistently with `AbstractFFTs`,
normalisation is performed at the end of a backward transform, so that the
original data is recovered when applying a forward followed by a backward
transform.

Also note that, at this moment, in-place transforms are not supported.

## Accessing and modifying data

For any given MPI process, a `PencilArray` holds the data associated to its
local partition in the global geometry.
`PencilArray`s are accessed using local indices that start at 1, regardless of
the location of the local process in the MPI topology.
Note that `PencilArray`s, being based on regular `Array`s, support both linear
and Cartesian indexing (see [the Julia
docs](https://docs.julialang.org/en/latest/manual/arrays/#Number-of-indices-1)
for details).

For convenience, the [`global_view`](@ref) function can be used to generate an
[`OffsetArray`](https://github.com/JuliaArrays/OffsetArrays.jl) wrapper that
takes global indices.

### [Output data layout](@id tutorial:output_data_layout)

In memory, the dimensions of the transform output are by default reversed with
respect to the input.
That is, if the order of indices in the input data is `(x, y, z)`, then the
output has order `(z, y, x)` in memory.
This detail is hidden from the user, and **output arrays are always accessed in
the same order as the input data**, regardless of the underlying output
dimension permutation.
This applies to `PencilArray`s and to `OffsetArray`s returned by
[`global_view`](@ref).

The reasoning behind dimension permutations, is that they allow to always
perform FFTs along the fastest array dimension and to avoid a local data
transposition, resulting in performance gains.
A similar approach is followed by other parallel FFT libraries.
FFTW itself, in its distributed-memory routines, [includes
a flag](http://fftw.org/doc/Transposed-distributions.html#Transposed-distributions)
that enables a similar behaviour.
In PencilFFTs, index permutation is the default, but it can be disabled via the
`permute_dims` flag of [`PencilFFTPlan`](@ref).

A great deal of work has been spent in making generic index permutations as
efficient as possible, both in intermediate and in the output state of the
multidimensional transforms.
This has been achieved, in part, by making sure that permutations such as `(3,
2, 1)` are compile-time constants (using [value
types](https://docs.julialang.org/en/latest/manual/types/#%22Value-types%22-1)).

## Further reading

The examples on the sidebar further illustrate the use of transforms and
provide an introduction to working with MPI-distributed data in the form of
`PencilArray`s.

In addition to the examples,
some useful scripts are available in the `test/` directory of the
`PencilFFTs` repo.

In particular, the
[`test/taylor_green.jl`](https://github.com/jipolanco/PencilFFTs.jl/blob/master/test/taylor_green.jl)
example is a fluid dynamics application around the
[Taylor--Green](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taylor%E2%80%93Green_vortex)
vortex flow.
The example shows how to:

- initialise a 3D vector field $\bm{v}$ that is compatible with
  [`PencilFFTPlan`](@ref)s,
- iterate efficiently over [`PencilArray`](@ref)s,
- apply forward and backward 3D parallel FFTs,
- compute the divergence ($\bm{∇} ⋅ \bm{v}$) and the curl ($\bm{∇} × \bm{v}$) of
  a vector field $\bm{v}$ in Fourier space.

The example uses a few tools (`Grids` and `FourierOperations` modules) defined
under the
[`test/include`](https://github.com/jipolanco/PencilFFTs.jl/tree/master/test/include)
directory, which are specifically written for real-to-complex FFTs.

Commit message:

Docs: update note on in-place transforms

docs/src/tutorial.md, after:

# Tutorial

```@meta
CurrentModule = PencilFFTs
```

The following tutorial shows how to perform a 3D FFT of real periodic data
defined on a grid of $N_x × N_y × N_z$ points.

```@raw html
<div class="figure">
  <!--
  Note: this is evaluated from the directory where the Tutorial page is
  built. This directory varies depending on whether `prettyurls` is enabled in
  `makedocs`. Here we assume `prettyurls=true`.
  -->
  <img
    width="85%"
    src="../img/pencils.svg"
    alt="Pencil decomposition of 3D domains">
</div>
```

The example assumes that 12 MPI processes are available.
The data is to be distributed on a 2D MPI topology of dimensions $3 × 4$,
as represented in the above figure.

## Creating plans

The first thing to do is to create a [`PencilFFTPlan`](@ref), which requires
information on the global dimensions $N_x × N_y × N_z$ of the data, on the
transforms that will be applied, and on the way the data is distributed among
MPI processes (i.e. number of processes along each dimension):

```julia
using MPI
using PencilFFTs

MPI.Init()

# Input data dimensions (Nx × Ny × Nz)
dims = (16, 32, 64)

# Apply a 3D real-to-complex (r2c) FFT.
transform = Transforms.RFFT()

# For more control, one can instead separately specify the transforms along each dimension:
# transform = (Transforms.RFFT(), Transforms.FFT(), Transforms.FFT())

# MPI topology information
comm = MPI.COMM_WORLD  # we assume MPI.Comm_size(comm) == 12
proc_dims = (3, 4)     # 3 processes along `y`, 4 along `z`

# Create plan
plan = PencilFFTPlan(dims, transform, proc_dims, comm)
```

See the [`PencilFFTPlan`](@ref) constructor for details on the accepted
options, and the [`Transforms`](@ref) module for the possible transforms.
It is also possible to enable fine-grained performance measurements via the
[TimerOutputs](https://github.com/KristofferC/TimerOutputs.jl) package, as
described in [Measuring performance](@ref PencilFFTs.measuring_performance).

In-place transforms are supported for complex-to-complex and real-to-real FFTs,
using transform types such as [`Transforms.FFT!`](@ref) and
[`Transforms.R2R!`](@ref).

## Allocating data

Next, we want to apply the plan on some data.
Transforms may only be applied on [`PencilArray`](@ref)s, which are array
wrappers that include MPI decomposition information (in some sense, analogous
to [`DistributedArray`](https://github.com/JuliaParallel/Distributedarrays.jl)s
in Julia's distributed computing approach).
The helper function [`allocate_input`](@ref) can be used to allocate
a `PencilArray` that is compatible with our plan:
```julia
# In our example, this returns a 3D PencilArray of real data (Float64).
u = allocate_input(plan)

# Fill the array with some (random) data
using Random
randn!(u)
```
`PencilArray`s are a subtype of `AbstractArray`, and thus they support all
common array operations.

Similarly, to preallocate output data, one can use [`allocate_output`](@ref):
```julia
# In our example, this returns a 3D PencilArray of complex data (Complex{Float64}).
v = allocate_output(plan)
```
This is only required if one wants to apply the plans using a preallocated
output (with `mul!`, see right below).

## Applying plans

The interface to apply plans is consistent with that of
[`AbstractFFTs`](https://juliamath.github.io/AbstractFFTs.jl/stable/api/#AbstractFFTs.plan_fft).
Namely, `*` and `mul!` are respectively used for forward transforms without and
with preallocated output data.
Similarly, `\ ` and `ldiv!` are used for backward transforms.

```julia
using LinearAlgebra  # for mul!, ldiv!

# Apply plan on `u` with `v` as an output
mul!(v, plan, u)

# Apply backward plan on `v` with `w` as an output
w = similar(u)
ldiv!(w, plan, v)  # now w ≈ u
```

Note that, consistently with `AbstractFFTs`,
normalisation is performed at the end of a backward transform, so that the
original data is recovered when applying a forward followed by a backward
transform.

## Accessing and modifying data

For any given MPI process, a `PencilArray` holds the data associated to its
local partition in the global geometry.
`PencilArray`s are accessed using local indices that start at 1, regardless of
the location of the local process in the MPI topology.
Note that `PencilArray`s, being based on regular `Array`s, support both linear
and Cartesian indexing (see [the Julia
docs](https://docs.julialang.org/en/latest/manual/arrays/#Number-of-indices-1)
for details).

For convenience, the [`global_view`](@ref) function can be used to generate an
[`OffsetArray`](https://github.com/JuliaArrays/OffsetArrays.jl) wrapper that
takes global indices.

### [Output data layout](@id tutorial:output_data_layout)

In memory, the dimensions of the transform output are by default reversed with
respect to the input.
That is, if the order of indices in the input data is `(x, y, z)`, then the
output has order `(z, y, x)` in memory.
This detail is hidden from the user, and **output arrays are always accessed in
the same order as the input data**, regardless of the underlying output
dimension permutation.
This applies to `PencilArray`s and to `OffsetArray`s returned by
[`global_view`](@ref).

The reasoning behind dimension permutations, is that they allow to always
perform FFTs along the fastest array dimension and to avoid a local data
transposition, resulting in performance gains.
A similar approach is followed by other parallel FFT libraries.
FFTW itself, in its distributed-memory routines, [includes
a flag](http://fftw.org/doc/Transposed-distributions.html#Transposed-distributions)
that enables a similar behaviour.
In PencilFFTs, index permutation is the default, but it can be disabled via the
`permute_dims` flag of [`PencilFFTPlan`](@ref).

A great deal of work has been spent in making generic index permutations as
efficient as possible, both in intermediate and in the output state of the
multidimensional transforms.
This has been achieved, in part, by making sure that permutations such as `(3,
2, 1)` are compile-time constants (using [value
types](https://docs.julialang.org/en/latest/manual/types/#%22Value-types%22-1)).

## Further reading

The examples on the sidebar further illustrate the use of transforms and
provide an introduction to working with MPI-distributed data in the form of
`PencilArray`s.

In addition to the examples,
some useful scripts are available in the `test/` directory of the
`PencilFFTs` repo.

In particular, the
[`test/taylor_green.jl`](https://github.com/jipolanco/PencilFFTs.jl/blob/master/test/taylor_green.jl)
example is a fluid dynamics application around the
[Taylor--Green](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taylor%E2%80%93Green_vortex)
vortex flow.
The example shows how to:

- initialise a 3D vector field $\bm{v}$ that is compatible with
  [`PencilFFTPlan`](@ref)s,
- iterate efficiently over [`PencilArray`](@ref)s,
- apply forward and backward 3D parallel FFTs,
- compute the divergence ($\bm{∇} ⋅ \bm{v}$) and the curl ($\bm{∇} × \bm{v}$) of
  a vector field $\bm{v}$ in Fourier space.

The example uses a few tools (`Grids` and `FourierOperations` modules) defined
under the
[`test/include`](https://github.com/jipolanco/PencilFFTs.jl/tree/master/test/include)
directory, which are specifically written for real-to-complex FFTs.
