benchmarks/clusters/idris.jean_zay/README.md, before:

# Benchmarks on the Jean-Zay cluster

[Strong
scaling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalability#Weak_versus_strong_scaling)
benchmarks of 3D real-to-complex FFTs using a 2D ("pencil") decomposition.

The number of MPI processes along each dimension (`P1` and `P2`) is
automatically determined by `MPI_Dims_create`.
In our tests, MPI tends to create a balanced decomposition with `P1 ≈ P2`.
For instance, a total of 1024 processes is divided into `P1 = P2 = 32`.

![Strong scaling of PencilFFTs](timing_comparison.svg)

## Machine

Tests run on the [Jean-Zay cluster](http://www.idris.fr/jean-zay/jean-zay-presentation.html)
([English version](http://www.idris.fr/eng/jean-zay/cpu/jean-zay-cpu-hw-eng.html)) of
IDRIS (France).

Some relevant specifications (copied from
[here](http://www.idris.fr/eng/jean-zay/cpu/jean-zay-cpu-hw-eng.html)):

- Cumulated peak performance of 13.9 Pflops/s

- Omni-Path interconnection network 100 Gb/s (1 link per scalar node and
  4 links per converged node)

- Spectrum Scale parallel file system (ex-GPFS)

- 1528 XA730i compute nodes, with 2 Intel Cascade Lake 6248 processors (20
  cores at 2.5 GHz), or 61120 cores available

## Software

The benchmarks were performed using Julia 1.3, Intel MPI 2019.0.4 and FFTW 3.3.9
(version bundled by FFTW.jl).

## Version

Date: 10 December 2019 (PencilFFTs commit
[`383ed8efa`](https://github.com/jipolanco/PencilFFTs.jl/commit/383ed8efa5bd37f5f3f79fcb60fadadbad3a90d9)).

Commit message:

Update benchmark data (WIP)
For now this is missing the run with 16384 tasks.

benchmarks/clusters/idris.jean_zay/README.md, after:

# Benchmarks on the Jean-Zay cluster

[Strong
scaling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalability#Weak_versus_strong_scaling)
benchmarks of 3D real-to-complex FFTs using a 2D ("pencil") decomposition.

The number of MPI processes along each dimension (`P1` and `P2`) is
automatically determined by `MPI_Dims_create`.
In our tests, MPI tends to create a balanced decomposition with `P1 ≈ P2`.
For instance, a total of 1024 processes is divided into `P1 = P2 = 32`.

![Strong scaling of PencilFFTs](timing_comparison.svg)

## Machine

Tests run on the [Jean-Zay cluster](http://www.idris.fr/jean-zay/jean-zay-presentation.html)
([English version](http://www.idris.fr/eng/jean-zay/cpu/jean-zay-cpu-hw-eng.html)) of
IDRIS (France).

Some relevant specifications (copied from
[here](http://www.idris.fr/eng/jean-zay/cpu/jean-zay-cpu-hw-eng.html)):

- Cumulated peak performance of 13.9 Pflops/s

- Omni-Path interconnection network 100 Gb/s (1 link per scalar node and
  4 links per converged node)

- Spectrum Scale parallel file system (ex-GPFS)

- 1528 XA730i compute nodes, with 2 Intel Cascade Lake 6248 processors (20
  cores at 2.5 GHz), or 61120 cores available

## Software

The benchmarks were performed using Julia 1.3.1 and Intel MPI 2019.0.4.
We used PencilFFTs v0.2.0 with FFTW.jl v1.2.0 and MPI.jl v0.11.0.
P3DFFT (Fortran version) was built with Intel 2019 compilers and linked to FFTW
3.3.8.

## Version

Date: 6 January 2020 (PencilFFTs v0.2.0, commit
[`b2621d49d`](https://github.com/jipolanco/PencilFFTs.jl/commit/b2621d49dcc95992f05896e943612d4dbdd7924e)).
